content/pages/projects.rst, before:

Projects
########

:tags: projects
:slug: projects
:summary: This page contains some projects I did as a hobby (not part of my
          professional work) or as part of university courses.
:url: projects
:save_as: projects/index.html

This page is dedicated to a selection of my hobbyist projects.

Since I am a software engineer, most of these projects are software related.

Some projects that are not mentioned here can be found on my `Github page`_.

.. _Github page: https://github.com/alkhimey/

Sports Arena Portable
======================
- **Description:** Little toy that was inspired by *Sports Arena* prize
  redemption game.
- **Year:** 2018-2019
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable

This is an **Arduino** project that use Arduino Mini Pro, WS2812 LED ring, a
buzzer and a vibration actuator. My first project that use perfboard and
soldering.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/internals.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Internals of the toy
   :target: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/internals.jpg

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/fail.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Example of failing the game

Hints Highlighting for AGS
===========================
- **Description:** Hints highlighting module for Adventure Game Studio
- **Year:** 2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/HintsHighlight

This module for `AGS <https://www.adventuregamestudio.co.uk/>`_ (**Adventure Game Studio**) adds an overlay which highlights
all the visible and clickable objects, hotspots and characters.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/HintsHighlight/master/screenshots/demo.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot from AGS


Light the Room
===============
- **Description:** A game that was developed during `Universe Game Jam 2018 <https://www.facebook.com/events/1715973618438998/>`_.
- **Year:** 2018
- **Play Online:** https://alkhimey.github.io/LightTheRoom/ (Doesn't work on Firefox)
- **Partners:** Stav Cinader, Nir Jacob Younessi, Noam Steiner, Yarden Vin,
  Meshi Sanker, Aviad Mai, Illai Perez

The team of programmers, artists and a sound designer was formed ad-hock by
the Jam organizers. We used **Unity** as our game engine.

.. image:: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_menu.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Main menu of the game

.. image:: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_gameplay.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Demo of the gameplay
   :target: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_gameplay.mp4

Linux Kernel Modules with Ada
==============================

- **Description:** A framework for writing Linux kernel modules using Ada
  programming language.
- **Year:** 2016-2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Ada_Kernel_Module_Toolkit

My attempt to develop **Linux Kernel Modules** using the **Ada** programming
language.

This is a proof of concept that I am still working on it. My goal is to
demonstrate the usefulness of Ada's strong typing system for this kind of
application.

Follow my blog to see how I progress.

CelloWar
==================

- **Description:** An android multiplayer game created during
  Global Game Jam 2018.
- **Year:** 2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alex-ilgayev/CelloWar
- **GGJ Page:** https://globalgamejam.org/2018/games/cellowar
- **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev

This is a turn based, two-player game for Android. It was created during
Global Game Jam 2018.

For the client part, we did not use anything beyond what **Android's NDK**
provided. All the graphics are drawn on a :code:`Canvas`.

For the game server, we used Tomcat and implemented our own
queueing protocol.

.. image:: /files/project_images/CelloWar.PNG
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot of the CelloWar game.


Let There be Light
==================

- **Description:** A game created with Construct 2 during Global Game Jam 2017.
- **Year:** 2017
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Wave/
- **Play Online:** http://ggj17.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/
- **GGJ Page:** http://globalgamejam.org/2017/games/let-there-be-light
- **Partners:** Andrey Smirnov (art), Yuval Neumann (programming),
  Ben Saban (design).

This game was created during Global Game Jam 2017. We used
**Construct 2** as the game engine.

Moving the mouse up and down will alter the path that the glowing moon is
following. The player must guide the moon to consume the glowing orbs,
otherwise it will fade and die.

.. image:: /files/project_images/screenshot_from_2017-01-21_21-49-28.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot of the "Let There be Light" game

Ada Curve
==========

- **Description:** Drawing splines with OpenGL bindings for Ada.
- **Year:** 2016-2017
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Ada_Curve

A little demonstration of different spline constructing algorithms.
The included algorithms are: De Castelijau (Bezier curves),
De Boor (B Splines), Catmull Rom and
Lagrange Interpolation (both on equidistant nodes and on Chavyshev nodes).

**Ada** programming language is used and the graphics are done with **OpenGL**
bindings to Ada.

.. image:: /files/project_images/ada_curve2.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Knockyo is a word play of Knock and Tokyo. Unfortunately our hosts, the Murata corporation is HQ in Osaka.

Knockyo
=======

- **Description:** A toy built with "Arduino" and "Murata" sensors.
- **Year:** 2015
- **Source:**  `Download </files/project_images/knockyo.zip>`_
- **Partners:** Evyatar Tamir, Daniel Zhitomirskii, Nadav Weiss

This is a toy that was developed during a hackathon sponsored by “Murata”,
a Japanese hardware manufacturer.

We used an **Arduino** with sensors produced by Murata to create a rhythmic
toy.

After the toy plays a sound pattern, the player has to tap on the mini drum in
a way that reproduces the same pattern. The accuracy of the reproduction
determines the score which is displayed on a neopixel ring.
A light sensor is used for hand gesture input commands such as starting a
game or recording a custom sound patterns.
Murata's shock sensor is concealed  in the drum.

Remeber: *Knockyo is the best Game in Tokyo!*

.. image:: /files/project_images/knockyo.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Knockyo is the best toy in Tokyo!


Iava
====

- **Description:** Developing a custom language called Iava
- **Year:** 2012
- **Source:** `Main project </files/project_images/IAVA.tar.gz>`_, `Eclipse plugin </files/project_images/IAVA_Plugin.tar.gz>`_
- **Partners:** Hadar Sivan, Alex Ilgayev, Alex Prutkov, Shai Barad,
  Pavel Kharakh, Bar Weiner, Arnon Yogev

This was done during the "yearly project in software engineering" at the
Technion.

In this project we developed a custom language that has similar but simpler
syntax as Java. We developed the "whole package": compiler, standard library,
a plugin for **Eclipse** and a manual.

The focus of this project was not the technology but rather practicing sound
software engineering techniques.

We used **Trac** to manage our work and **svn** for source control. Tracs's
wiki was used for internal documentation. We also wrote formal design
documents.

As per requirements of our professor, we organized our work into several
iterations, with a demo and review of the system at the end of each one.

Big effort was put into testing. We did automatic tests at every level and
for every component of our system.

.. image:: /files/project_images/IAVA_High_Level_Design.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: High level design diagram of our IAVA building system

Spartanization Plug-in for Ecplise
==================================

- **Description:** An Eclipse plugin that can refactor you code to minimize
  token count.
- **Year:** 2012-2014
- **Source:** https://bitbucket.org/alkhimey/spartanrefactoring
- **Blog post:** `Link </2013/03/09/spartanization-plug-in-for-eclipse>`_

Spartan programming is a coding style which tries to minimize the elements of
code.

I developed an **eclipse plugin** that allows to perform three automatic
refactoring commands that will make your code more "spartan".

My professor continued to offer a project course for expanding the plugin. The
final product which is the work of many students can be found
`here <https://github.com/SpartanRefactoring/Main>`_ and it is much more
advanced than my version.

.. image:: /files/spartanization_refactoring.png
  :width: 400 px
  :alt: Refactoring ternary expressions

3D Model Viewer
===============

- **Description:** 3D model viewer developed as part of computer graphics
  course.
- **Year:** 2011
- **Source:** https://app.assembla.com/spaces/cg_2011/subversion/source/HEAD/trunk/skeleton_2008
- **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev

This is a 3D model viewer with many features that demonstrate what we learned
during our computer graphics course at the Technion.

The highlight of our viewer was the ability to render images in cell shading
style (aka *toon shading*). We tuned this shader to produce images that look
like manga drawings.

.. image:: /files/project_images/170600_1723940292197_1301573_o.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Demonstration of cell shader we developed

.. image:: /files/project_images/171100_1723940412200_5928512_o.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Another demonstration of cell shader we developed


.. Tower Defense with Kinect
.. =========================
.. - **Description:** A game that uses player gestures to attack advancing
..   enemies.
.. - **Year:** TBD
.. - **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev
..
.. Back in the day when Kinect was a novelty poineering cheap real time 3d scanning,
.. we recieved a

Commit message:

Added spline module into projects list

content/pages/projects.rst, after:

Projects
########

:tags: projects
:slug: projects
:summary: This page contains some projects I did as a hobby (not part of my
          professional work) or as part of university courses.
:url: projects
:save_as: projects/index.html

This page is dedicated to a selection of my hobbyist projects.

Since I am a software engineer, most of these projects are software related.

Some projects that are not mentioned here can be found on my `Github page`_.

.. _Github page: https://github.com/alkhimey/

Spline Module for AGS
======================
- **Description:** Spline Module for Adventure Game Studio
- **Year:** 2019
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Spline

This is a module for `AGS <https://www.adventuregamestudio.co.uk/>`_ (**Adventure Game Studio**) engine.

This module provide two related functions:

1. The ability to draw splines.
2. The ability to create a spline path that can be used for animations.

It uses Catmull Rom for calculating the splines.

.. image:: https://github.com/alkhimey/Spline/raw/master/screenshots/demo1.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Drawing splines.

.. image:: https://github.com/alkhimey/Spline/raw/master/screenshots/demo2.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Use splines for animation.

Sports Arena Portable
======================
- **Description:** Little toy that was inspired by *Sports Arena* prize
  redemption game.
- **Year:** 2018-2019
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable

This is an **Arduino** project that use Arduino Mini Pro, WS2812 LED ring, a
buzzer and a vibration actuator. My first project that use perfboard and
soldering.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/internals.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Internals of the toy
   :target: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/internals.jpg

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/SportsArenaPortable/master/doc/fail.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Example of failing the game

Hints Highlighting for AGS
===========================
- **Description:** Hints highlighting module for Adventure Game Studio
- **Year:** 2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/HintsHighlight

This module for `AGS <https://www.adventuregamestudio.co.uk/>`_ (**Adventure Game Studio**) adds an overlay which highlights
all the visible and clickable objects, hotspots and characters.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alkhimey/HintsHighlight/master/screenshots/demo.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot from AGS


Light the Room
===============
- **Description:** A game that was developed during `Universe Game Jam 2018 <https://www.facebook.com/events/1715973618438998/>`_.
- **Year:** 2018
- **Play Online:** https://alkhimey.github.io/LightTheRoom/ (Doesn't work on Firefox)
- **Partners:** Stav Cinader, Nir Jacob Younessi, Noam Steiner, Yarden Vin,
  Meshi Sanker, Aviad Mai, Illai Perez

The team of programmers, artists and a sound designer was formed ad-hock by
the Jam organizers. We used **Unity** as our game engine.

.. image:: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_menu.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Main menu of the game

.. image:: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_gameplay.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Demo of the gameplay
   :target: /files/project_images/lighttheroom_gameplay.mp4

Linux Kernel Modules with Ada
==============================

- **Description:** A framework for writing Linux kernel modules using Ada
  programming language.
- **Year:** 2016-2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Ada_Kernel_Module_Toolkit

My attempt to develop **Linux Kernel Modules** using the **Ada** programming
language.

This is a proof of concept that I am still working on it. My goal is to
demonstrate the usefulness of Ada's strong typing system for this kind of
application.

Follow my blog to see how I progress.

CelloWar
==================

- **Description:** An android multiplayer game created during
  Global Game Jam 2018.
- **Year:** 2018
- **Source:** https://github.com/alex-ilgayev/CelloWar
- **GGJ Page:** https://globalgamejam.org/2018/games/cellowar
- **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev

This is a turn based, two-player game for Android. It was created during
Global Game Jam 2018.

For the client part, we did not use anything beyond what **Android's NDK**
provided. All the graphics are drawn on a :code:`Canvas`.

For the game server, we used Tomcat and implemented our own
queueing protocol.

.. image:: /files/project_images/CelloWar.PNG
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot of the CelloWar game.


Let There be Light
==================

- **Description:** A game created with Construct 2 during Global Game Jam 2017.
- **Year:** 2017
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Wave/
- **Play Online:** http://ggj17.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/
- **GGJ Page:** http://globalgamejam.org/2017/games/let-there-be-light
- **Partners:** Andrey Smirnov (art), Yuval Neumann (programming),
  Ben Saban (design).

This game was created during Global Game Jam 2017. We used
**Construct 2** as the game engine.

Moving the mouse up and down will alter the path that the glowing moon is
following. The player must guide the moon to consume the glowing orbs,
otherwise it will fade and die.

.. image:: /files/project_images/screenshot_from_2017-01-21_21-49-28.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Screenshot of the "Let There be Light" game

Ada Curve
==========

- **Description:** Drawing splines with OpenGL bindings for Ada.
- **Year:** 2016-2017
- **Source:** https://github.com/alkhimey/Ada_Curve

A little demonstration of different spline constructing algorithms.
The included algorithms are: De Castelijau (Bezier curves),
De Boor (B Splines), Catmull Rom and
Lagrange Interpolation (both on equidistant nodes and on Chavyshev nodes).

**Ada** programming language is used and the graphics are done with **OpenGL**
bindings to Ada.

.. image:: /files/project_images/ada_curve2.gif
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Knockyo is a word play of Knock and Tokyo. Unfortunately our hosts, the Murata corporation is HQ in Osaka.

Knockyo
=======

- **Description:** A toy built with "Arduino" and "Murata" sensors.
- **Year:** 2015
- **Source:**  `Download </files/project_images/knockyo.zip>`_
- **Partners:** Evyatar Tamir, Daniel Zhitomirskii, Nadav Weiss

This is a toy that was developed during a hackathon sponsored by “Murata”,
a Japanese hardware manufacturer.

We used an **Arduino** with sensors produced by Murata to create a rhythmic
toy.

After the toy plays a sound pattern, the player has to tap on the mini drum in
a way that reproduces the same pattern. The accuracy of the reproduction
determines the score which is displayed on a neopixel ring.
A light sensor is used for hand gesture input commands such as starting a
game or recording a custom sound patterns.
Murata's shock sensor is concealed  in the drum.

Remeber: *Knockyo is the best Game in Tokyo!*

.. image:: /files/project_images/knockyo.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Knockyo is the best toy in Tokyo!


Iava
====

- **Description:** Developing a custom language called Iava
- **Year:** 2012
- **Source:** `Main project </files/project_images/IAVA.tar.gz>`_, `Eclipse plugin </files/project_images/IAVA_Plugin.tar.gz>`_
- **Partners:** Hadar Sivan, Alex Ilgayev, Alex Prutkov, Shai Barad,
  Pavel Kharakh, Bar Weiner, Arnon Yogev

This was done during the "yearly project in software engineering" at the
Technion.

In this project we developed a custom language that has similar but simpler
syntax as Java. We developed the "whole package": compiler, standard library,
a plugin for **Eclipse** and a manual.

The focus of this project was not the technology but rather practicing sound
software engineering techniques.

We used **Trac** to manage our work and **svn** for source control. Tracs's
wiki was used for internal documentation. We also wrote formal design
documents.

As per requirements of our professor, we organized our work into several
iterations, with a demo and review of the system at the end of each one.

Big effort was put into testing. We did automatic tests at every level and
for every component of our system.

.. image:: /files/project_images/IAVA_High_Level_Design.png
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: High level design diagram of our IAVA building system

Spartanization Plug-in for Ecplise
==================================

- **Description:** An Eclipse plugin that can refactor you code to minimize
  token count.
- **Year:** 2012-2014
- **Source:** https://bitbucket.org/alkhimey/spartanrefactoring
- **Blog post:** `Link </2013/03/09/spartanization-plug-in-for-eclipse>`_

Spartan programming is a coding style which tries to minimize the elements of
code.

I developed an **eclipse plugin** that allows to perform three automatic
refactoring commands that will make your code more "spartan".

My professor continued to offer a project course for expanding the plugin. The
final product which is the work of many students can be found
`here <https://github.com/SpartanRefactoring/Main>`_ and it is much more
advanced than my version.

.. image:: /files/spartanization_refactoring.png
  :width: 400 px
  :alt: Refactoring ternary expressions

3D Model Viewer
===============

- **Description:** 3D model viewer developed as part of computer graphics
  course.
- **Year:** 2011
- **Source:** https://app.assembla.com/spaces/cg_2011/subversion/source/HEAD/trunk/skeleton_2008
- **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev

This is a 3D model viewer with many features that demonstrate what we learned
during our computer graphics course at the Technion.

The highlight of our viewer was the ability to render images in cell shading
style (aka *toon shading*). We tuned this shader to produce images that look
like manga drawings.

.. image:: /files/project_images/170600_1723940292197_1301573_o.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Demonstration of cell shader we developed

.. image:: /files/project_images/171100_1723940412200_5928512_o.jpg
   :width: 400 px
   :alt: Another demonstration of cell shader we developed


.. Tower Defense with Kinect
.. =========================
.. - **Description:** A game that uses player gestures to attack advancing
..   enemies.
.. - **Year:** TBD
.. - **Partners:** Alex Ilgayev
..
.. Back in the day when Kinect was a novelty poineering cheap real time 3d scanning,
.. we recieved a
